do you want to take control of your
personal finances can't you stop talking
about money it's boring Tony the
number-one money move I recommend you do
is make a budget and stick to it in
today's video you will learn everything
you need to know about budgeting if you
want to change your financial future for
the better make sure you watch this
video till the end what is a budget it's
a bad word which keeps you from having
any form no it's not a budget is a
spending plan for your money if you
don't tell your money where to go you'll
wonder where it all went who needs a
Who needs a budget
budget anybody who uses money money is a
valuable tool used to purchase our wants
and her needs a budget allows you to
determine in advance if you make enough
money to afford your wants and your
needs a budget is for the minimum-wage
worker when your income is low you don't
have a lot of disposable income so a
budget will give you a clear picture on
what you can't afford and help you
prioritize your spending on the things
that are most important to you a budget
is also for the higher earner if you
can't manage a thousand dollars you
can't manage ten thousand dollars you
don't suddenly learn how to manage money
by amassing more money the more money
you make the more money you spend this
is called lifestyle creep without a
budget you can potentially put yourself
in the same financial position as a
minimum wage worker spending money is a
lot easier than making it whether you
work at McDonald's owning McDonald's or
is the president and CEO of McDonald's
you need a budget what are the benefits
Benefits of a budget
of a budget a budget will make you more
efficient with your money money can be
easily wasted without you knowing where
it went so a budget will help you
minimize that waste and save money a
budget gives you control over your money
without it your money controls you a
budget helps you reach your financial
goals sooner a budget will determine how
much money you can save and whether you
can reach your financial goals whether
that goal is the saver for a house or go
on a vacation a budget will help you
understand your finances people that go
into debt may not even realize they're
going in today because they don't have a
budget that's telling them that they
spend more money than they make a budget
allows you to find the adjustments you
need to make build your net worth and
decrease your debts a budget allows you
to buy things you want for example you
want a new laptop at the end of the
month but you only budgeted $200 a month
for new
so what you can do is adjust your budget
accordingly reduce your driving
restaurant visits entertainment and fun
money till you have enough to afford the
laptop if you still can't afford it put
that money in a sinking fund and try
again next month what are the cons to
Cons of a budget
budgeting the only real con to budgeting
is that it can be time-consuming but
think about it this way if creating and
managing a budget allows you to save
$300 a month and takes you 2 hours a
month to create manage and update that
budget saving money is the same as
saving time think of work as trading
your time for money 2 hours of budgeting
can be a lot more valuable than two
extra hours of work what are some
Budgeting Methods
budgeting methods the percent budget the
most common percent budget being a 50 30
20 budget 50% needs 30 percent wants and
20 percent savings this budget
prioritizes your needs but still allows
you to have enough wants and savings
there's many different combinations of
the percent budget you should adjust
your budget to fit your own personal
situations this budget can be a lot less
time-consuming because you only have
three main categories to manage the con
with this is that it might be easy to
overspend because you're not managing
every expense in a different category
the next method the zero-based budget
now this budget is the most
time-consuming but is the most accurate
remember a budget is only an estimate of
your spending plan with a zero base
budget every dollar you make has a plan
so let's say you make four thousand
dollars a month a zero based budget will
tell you where every single dollar is
going if you want to be in full control
of your money get the most benefits from
budgeting then use this method the next
method the cash envelope system when you
get paid you would draw a certain amount
of money and place them in envelopes
labeled to match each category if you
put $200 in your groceries envelope
that's how much you have for groceries
till the next payday this allows you to
physically see how much money you have
left in each category this makes this
budget perfect for those who tend to
overspend and since you're using cash
you can't spend more than you make this
method is a lot easier to manage and a
lot less time-consuming than other
methods but there is a few cons to this
method you can lose your money or it
could get stolen
also since you're using cash you won't
get any benefits of a credit card
like purchase protection and rewards the
least time consuming budgeting method is
no budget budget with this budget
there's only two things you need to pay
attention to the money coming in and the
money going out to make this budget work
set up automatic payments for things
like rent internet utilities insurance
and memberships also set up automatic
deposits for savings and pay off debt
plans the rest of the money in your bank
can be spent however you like as long as
you don't spend more money than you have
this budget is for people who don't like
budgeting the con with this is that you
can easily overspend and you don't get
any benefits of having a real budget if
you're a frugal and savvy with your
money then this budgeting method can
work because you're naturally a saver
but if you're bad with your money and
naturally a spender then you need a more
time-consuming budget how can you track
Tracking Your Budget
your budget the old-school way with pen
and paper whenever you make or spend
money write it down you can print off
income and expense tracker templates
online or you can make your own also
depending on who you bank with or what
credit cards you use some of these
financial institutions have expense
trackers built right into their app for
example RBC has no me insights and no me
budgets TD has TD mice pen and tangerine
has left to spend for these apps to work
you need to use them for all your
purchases and if you use credit cards
you need to pay them with the same
institution the con with using these
apps is you're not able to sync all of
your accounts and not able to add manual
entries if you're looking for an
all-in-one app to help you track your
expenses then take a look at mint or
YNAB these apps are able to sync to all
of your bank and credit card accounts to
use mint there's no cost but with YNAB
it costs 1199 US a month or an annual
plan for 84 US dollars which comes to
seven US dollars a month if you're
someone that uses cash you'll need to
keep all your receipts and write down
all your expenses remember to check your
budget at least once a week to make sure
you're on track and you're not
overspending in one category if you
don't track your budget you can try to
schedule your expenses once you do up a
budget and find out how much money you
spend in each category you can divide
the expense by how many times you spend
a month in that category for example if
you spend $400 a month on groceries and
go grocery shopping once a week you can
spend $100 each time and if one week you
only spend 50 then that means the next
week you can spend
50 even if you do track your budget
doing this can help you from
overspending my personal budget allows
me to get takeout every Friday go to a
social restaurant the first Saturday of
the month usually get gas once a week
and also fun money for the weekends if I
don't use that fun money for one week I
can add it to the next week and if there
wasn't a birthday or a holiday expense
that month I could add that extra money
into savings or fun money what are some
Common Categories
common categories for a budget home
expenses like rent or a mortgage
renter's insurance or home insurance
property tax electricity gas water
internet and cable transportation
expenses like car payments auto
insurance gas tolls parking car
maintenance taxis and ride sharing food
expenses like groceries fast-food coffee
shops and restaurants entertainment and
fun money expenses like the movie
theater sporting events attractions bars
clubs and shopping other expenses like
medicine cosmetics personal hygiene
household cleaning supplies and pet
supplies also things like life insurance
cell phone bills Netflix Prime
membership gym memberships childcare
haircuts and bank fees then there's
expenses that are annually it might
creep up on you
these include credit card fees Costco
membership passport and license renewal
registration renewal birthdays holidays
like Christmas and even taxes if you're
expected to pay in also consider having
sinking funds in your budget for big
expenses like Christmas a new car car
repairs home repairs and medical and
dental expenses you should also have
sinking funds for anything else that you
want to save up for like a down payment
on a new house upgrading your kitchen a
vacation or even a new laptop you also
want to track your debts in your budget
credit card payments car payments line
of credits personal loans and student
debts another important category in your
budget is investing saving money should
only be for short term expenses anything
long-term should be invested if you're
looking to get started investing one of
the easiest way is with well simple
invests sign up now with my link and
deposit a minimum of $500 to get a $50
bonus
refer a link in the video description
below now let's move on to how to make
How To Budget
budget first thing you want to do is
figure out your monthly income this
includes your job side hustles interests
on savings tips commissions rental
income pension child care benefits etc
other income that isn't monthly can
include dividends on stocks gifts tax
returns bonus GST capital gains cashback
apps and cash back credit cards if your
income is the same every month it'll be
a lot easier to assign all of your money
in your budget if you have a regular
income it's best practice to try and
budget on the lower end income so let's
say month one you make $4,000 month two
you make $4,000 but month three you make
$3,000 you should design your budget
around $3,000 if you notice that you're
constantly going over budget
then consider taking an average of your
income for your budget once you figure
out how much money you make a month now
you need to figure out how much money
you spend a month you can do this by
going through your bank statements and
your credit card statements the further
you go back the more accurate your
spending will be I recommend going back
to at least three to six months to a
maximum of 12 months if you use cash to
purchase everything you won't be able to
figure out how much you spend in each
category or you'll be able to see how
much money you're spending in total so
take an average of how much you're
spending in each category and add that
to your budget make sure you include at
least minimum payment on debts in your
budget now take your average monthly
income and - your average monthly
spending if you get a negative number
you're spending more money than you make
if you get a positive number you're
naturally saving money the way to fix if
you have a negative number is to
increase your income or reduce your
expenses to maximize you'll want to do
both if you have a positive number that
means you have money that's not assigned
you have three choices increase paying
off debt put it in a savings account or
invest it increasing your expenses is
not a choice you actually want to try to
minimize your expenses as much as
possible so should you invest do you
Should You Invest
have any high interest debt if you do
then no increase your debt payments and
pay off your high interest debt before
you do any investing should you save do
Should You Save
you have a 1000 to $2,000 emergency fund
if not then yes save for your mergency
fund first before you increase payments
on your high end
dead or even think about investing once
you have your 1000 to $2,000 emergency
fund you want to allocate your extra
money to paying off your high interest
debt once you have that paid off you'll
want to add to your emergency fund again
till you have three to six months of
living expenses you can start investing
while you're saving for your three to
six months of living expenses but it all
depends on your personal situation if
you want to learn more about emergency
funds click this link up here or look
for the link in the video description
below your budget isn't gonna be right
the first time you do it your budget
will most likely need fine-tuning every
month took me about a year till I had
the perfect budget and had the perfect
spending habits when making a budget
your spending categories should be in
order for most important like housing
and food to less important like
entertainment and fun money make sure
you can afford the most important things
before spending on anything else take a
look at each category every month and
see what you can improve the less you
spend on your wants and your needs the
more you can pay off debt save and
invest what's the key to sticking to a
The Key
budget the key is making it as easy as
possible and to reward yourself to make
budgeting easy use a budgeting app or
try something like Koho a prepaid Visa
with built-in budgeting tools also when
making your budget don't set yourself up
for failure it's better to overestimate
your expenses than to underestimate them
and don't lie to yourself this is your
personal budget and you can spend your
money however you like are you crazy
it's a can of old fish don't tell me how
to spend my money the point of a budget
is to have a spending plan for your
money a budget makes sure that you have
enough money for the most important
things but make sure you pay yourself
Outro
first creating and sticking to a budget
is one of the most important things to
do for your personal finances doing this
you're on your way to good financial
health and one step closer to the
ultimate goal financial freedom if you
like this video hit the like button and
share this with a friend if you haven't
already make sure you subscribe and hit
the bell icon they get notified when new
videos come out if you got any more
questions about budgeting leave them
comment section below thanks for
watching until next time keep making
money moves please