ladies and gentlemen damasik Caballeros
if you give me 10 to 15 minutes of your
time today I can show you how to manage
your money so you will never go broke
again if you can pause what you're doing
out of your busy schedule and just give
me your attention I can show you how to
manage your money so you will never have
to worry about your car breaking down
paying bills on time or losing your job
and I'm not even going to ask you
anything in exchange just that one penny
for watching those five second ads in
this video deal maybe even watch it two
times and pay me two pennies but anyways
in this video I want to share a
five-step plan in order to break away
from the paycheck to paycheck life a
plan where you can take control over
your finances and don't have to worry
constantly about money and this is not a
get rich quick side hustle video where I
tell you to befriend an old person
online now this is actually a practical
video where you can apply everything I
say in your life and over time if you
manage your money this way you will
never have to worry about going broke
again so here is my five-step plan to
managing your money so you will never go
broke again
Understand Exactly Why People Are Living Paycheck to Paycheck
step one understand exactly why people
are living paycheck to paycheck
I want to start this video off just by
saying that money isn't random it isn't
evil it's not out to get you money is
just basic math and I am sure that you
understand basic math so I just want to
start by getting you to understand
exactly why people are living paycheck
to paycheck because it's so simple now
99 of people in this world will trade
their knowledge skills in labor at a job
in exchange for a paycheck then they use
that paycheck for the first round of
spending on big payments like bills rent
and groceries and after that there's a
much smaller amount of money left over
that smaller amount of money goes
through a second round of spending on
extra things like Amazon eating out in
ice cream and after all that spending
there is no money left over so they have
to do it over again work make money
first round of spending smaller amount
of money second round of spending no
money
over and over most people live their
lives this way most people don't
understand that this is not a
sustainable way to live because for
example what happens if you lose your
job well money stops coming in and the
entire thing collapses
and even if you have a 10-year job where
you think you never have to worry about
losing your job it's just a vicious
circle where things never get easier and
there's no light at the end of the
tunnel you can't live your life this way
this is just existing it is not living
you need to get out of this way of
thinking and develop a more sustainable
plan so now I want to talk about exactly
how to develop that plan and let's start
with the basics
Adopt A Frugal Mindset
step two adopt a Frugal mindset
one thing that I preach over and over
again in my channel is that being Frugal
is not about pinching pennies and
depriving yourself but frugality is
managing your money in a way where
you're not depriving yourself nor
wasting anything
most people could save so much money and
create a much more sustainable lifestyle
if they just adopted Frugal habits and
cut their wasteful spending so let's go
back to the Chart I just showed you and
adopt some Frugal habits and see how it
changes the flow
so just like before they work make money
but now they've adopted more frugal
mindset and they choose to move to a
smaller house where they don't have a
bunch of extra space they get a cheaper
car with a smaller payment and they take
steps to lower some of their bills well
because they did that they now have more
money left over in the second round so
they use their superhuman Frugal habits
and cut out wasteful spending on the
smaller expenses like stop eating out so
much cut down their Amazon shopping and
only get ice cream three times a week
and in the end they have some money left
over
you see how much of an impact the tiny
decision of being Frugal and cutting
wasteful spending made on the flow
because they were making intentional
decisions to lower their expenses at the
end of the cycle they even had a little
bit of money left over before the next
paycheck in this step alone isn't gonna
change your life but it's a good place
to start it's the first step in getting
out of the paycheck to paycheck life so
now that we talked about this basic
thing let's go in a little bit more
detail and move on to the third step
Begin Establishing The Emergency Fund
step three begin establishing the
emergency fund
all right although you adopted some
Frugal habits that made you in a better
financial position you can't just depend
on frugality in order to have a healthy
relationship with money you have to
develop a plan where you're not one
paycheck away from catastrophic disaster
like 58 of Americans are
so let's go back to the chart and I'm
going to show you exactly how to do this
now just like before you work make money
but this time before you start the first
round of spending take a small amount of
money out whatever you can afford and
put it in a savings account this is
called paying yourself first and we're
going to put it towards the emergency
fund
and you need to do this to set aside a
specific amount of money every single
paycheck for this emergency fund because
what happens if your car breaks down or
you lose your job you're gonna need some
money and Santa Claus he ain't coming to
town so you put the money in the
emergency fund and you never use it
unless there's emergency got it all
right back to the chart
you work make money pay yourself first
then do the rest and over time slowly if
you are consistent this will grow and
ideally the rule of thumb is this should
be 6 to 12 months of living expenses in
case you lose your job or something
expensive comes up you have the money
ready
and because you did this simple thing
imagine if you suddenly lose your job
well because you have this emergency
fund you can just take money out of that
in the meantime to pay your bills until
you get a new job and so at this point
you're no longer 100 reliant on a
paycheck you have this emergency fund to
use in case something goes bad and so
you're slowly breaking out of this
paycheck to paycheck life and developing
a more sustainable way to live you're no
Elon Musk but you're getting there so
now let's keep moving and move on to the
fourth step
Begin Getting Your Money To Work For You
step four begin getting your money to
work for you
now once you reach enough money in your
emergency fund to cover 6 to 12 months
of living expenses
congratulations you don't need to add
any more money into that because of a
little thing called inflation
and you probably have heard of this
before but for some reason over time the
price of a Big Mac just keeps going up
there ain't no dollar menu anymore and I
don't know why this is maybe greed maybe
selfishness maybe corporate welfare I am
no Economist but this thing just happens
over time but once you finish your
emergency fund you start to get your
money to work for you you get your money
to make you more money and you do that
by opening a brokerage account and
investing in something called index
funds and I made a step-by-step video up
here of how to do that but let's go back
to the charm and let me show you exactly
how this works you work you make money
and since your emergency fund is
complete you stop putting money in it
instead you begin putting the money into
an investment account into the stock
market then over time that money will
make more money
but the thing about making money from
this is that when you make money you
don't spend it you just let it keep
growing and keep making you money
without you doing anything and this is
called passive income
it's money that you're making without
doing any work and if you look at the
chart all you have to do is put the
money in the stock market then over time
it'll make you more money and then that
money goes back into the stock market
and over time it will make more money
and so on and you can go on YouTube and
see all these people promising you that
you can make fifty thousand dollars a
month in passive income by doing these
things but in my opinion index investing
or investing in the stock market is one
of the only true forms of passive income
the other source is you're going to have
to work for like 10 years and then it'll
eventually become passive income so
let's go back to this chart and watch
the flow of this
so like always you work you make money
emerging funds complete you invest and
then continue on the rest work make
money invest
over and over in index investing or
investing in the stock market is not
going to make you rich but it is going
to grow your money and help you fight
inflation rather than just putting it in
a savings account and so if you look at
the flow of this it's a much more
sustainable plan because if you lose
your job you now have the emergency fund
to depend on and you have these
Investments
it's becoming much more sustainable you
don't have to worry about this vicious
circle of living paycheck to paycheck
and what's going to happen if you lose
your job and you no longer have a
paycheck so now that you're becoming
more financially secure let's get a
little bit creative and move on to the
final step
Get Creative And Continue Expanding
five get creative and continue expanding
when you become less dependent on a
paycheck by establishing an emergency
fund and investing in the stock market
options start to open up because you're
not as desperate anymore sure you still
need money but you're always going to
need money and I think that you're
always going to want to work too it's
more about doing work that you don't
despise
and so at this point in our journey you
can be a little bit more creative you
can figure out new ways to generate
income on your own terms so let's look
at the chart and see how this works an
extremely basic way is maybe a side
hustle like being an Uber driver to
bring income outside of your normal job
or you can consider starting a business
for example I make money from this
YouTube channel which I use as income
and in this day and age they are an
infinite amount of possibilities to make
money you don't need a small loan of a
million dollars from Daddy anymore you
just need to think outside the box
you have to be creative and figured out
on your own and I don't claim to be the
successful millionaire that has it all
figured out but I'm learning a lot about
this right now it is very hard to figure
out ways to make money outside of a
paycheck there's no instruction manual
but as tough as it is it is very cool to
make money without depending on a
paycheck and so that is the system of
how to manage your money without ever
running out most people's financial
situation looks like this a vicious
circle of make money spend money and
need to make more money
but a more sustainable plan looks like
this adopt Frugal habits to lower your
expenses create your emergency fund
start investing to grow your money and
start generating other forms of income
and so the system isn't dependent on one
single source of income you could afford
to go without a paycheck every now and
then because you have these other
sources backing you up and I could lie
and tell you that I know how to make
fifty thousand dollars in passive income
and you could do it too but that doesn't
help out anybody this actually works
it's slow it's boring but if you take
steps in your life today to develop a
more sustainable plan and get out of
this paycheck to paycheck Vicious Circle
you will never have to worry about going
broke again and with that muchas gracias
video 109 Noble Chico
How to Manage Your Money So You Never Go Broke

Austin Williams
144K subscribers

Join

Subscribe
