back when I was broke every emergency
was a full-blown crisis everybody
Panic if I cracked a tooth on a Nature
Valley bar if the AC went out mid July
if my car started making humpback whale
sounds I was in trouble because I had no
Financial cushion between me and life
it's like when you get in trouble in
youth group because you failed to leave
room for Jesus just traumatic in
different ways leave room for Jesus
but when I decided to get control of my
money one of the first things I did was
build an emergency fund for when the
unexpected happens and now I get a lot
of questions from you guys about
emergency funds how much should you save
where should you keep it and what even
qualifies as an emergency the Taylor
Swift 1989 re-release on vinyl not an
emergency but I will be buying it with
no shame George's version So today we're
going to go over what you need to know
when it comes to protecting yourself
with an emergency fund but first
emergency this is is not a drill like
subscribe and share immediately
emergency this is not a drill like
subscribe and share immediately you
heard the man do what he says all right
I'm sure you're all aware of Murphy's
Law anything that can go wrong will go
wrong and don't forget about his brother
Cole known for Cole's law Cole's law you
know what not a fan of either you see if
you don't have an emergency fund Murphy
is going to move in with you full-time
watch Narcos in the back room and finish
off your leftover piz faster than you
can say cauliflower cheese stuff crust
that's why you need to have money in the
bank to cover emergencies otherwise
you're going to turn to credit cards
borrow from your 401k take out a HELOC
or any other dumb things that will keep
you stuck in debt and prevent you from
getting ahead with money now before we
go on little PSA here if you have
Consumer Debt your focus shouldn't be
piling up a huge emergency fund yet your
focus should be on getting out of debt
like your life depends on it so if
that's you the first thing you should do
right now after liking and subscribing
obviously is to save up a $1,000 starter
emergency fund for some of you saving
1,000 bucks may feel impossible maybe
you've never even had that much money in
your bank account at one time but I
promise if you're intentional with your
budget sell some stuff do some side
hustles cancel some subscriptions you
could have that $1,000 and under a month
now for the rest of you you're thinking
$1,000 that's nowhere near enough for an
emergency fund to which I say I know
that's why I said starter it's not
supposed to be enough it's just supposed
to keep you afloat while you put the
rest of your time energy resources and
money toward getting out of debt and I
want to see some intensity here I want
to see some passion I want you coming in
like a wrecking ball people more passion
more passion more energy then once the
debts gone you graduate from a starter
to a big boy fully funded emergency fund
I'm talking 3 to 6 months of expenses
saved which should be enough to protect
you from falling back into the debt
cycle when emergencies do happen but
just how much as 3 to 6 months of
expenses well start by looking at your
bank account and budget to see what it
takes to operate your house household
for a given month and you're going to
want to account for a bit more than the
minimum food utilities housing and
transportation but maybe we don't
include all the luxuries like Fridays at
Applebee's or your weekly bassoon
lessons that way if you lose your job
because your undocumented evil twin
shows up locks you in the trunk of your
car and starts vandalizing your office
supply room after pretending to be you
you can live off your emergency fund for
a couple of months very specific
reference but it could happen I'm just
saying you'll just want to get on a
barebones budget that just covers the
essentials so you can pay your bills put
food on the table and fill up the gas
tank now once you know how much it takes
to operate your household for 1 month
let's say for your family that's $5,000
multiply it by three or six to get an
idea of how much you should save so in
this case that would be around $15 or
$30,000 yeah I mastered my
multiplication tables in fourth grade 9
*
7 63 edit the breakout later guys thank
you no no I don't think I will quick
side note I cover how to save up this
amount and More in chapter 12 of my new
book Breaking Free from broke if you
want to check that out I'll drop a link
below so you can pre-order and get a
whole bunch of goodies when you do so
next question how do you know if you
should save up 3 months or 6 months of
expenses great question faroo thank you
for that love when you throw those fast
balls so here's my rule of thumb save 6
months of expenses if you fall into any
of these categories you're married with
one income you're a single parent you're
selfy employed you have a regular income
like commission or seasonal jobs or you
or someone in your home has chronic
health issues save at least 3 months of
expenses if you fall into either of
these categories you're single with no
dependence and a stable income or you're
married with two stable incomes so let's
get tactical if you're a single fireman
with no dependence 3 months is fine and
also if you're a single fireman with no
dependence comment below on this video
I've got a friend you'd be great with
and if you're a stay-at-home parent
whose spouse recently quit their
corporate job to be their own boss and
sell supplements through a commission
based business model you'll want to have
6 months and you also might want to
investigate further this has Lula Rich
written all over it but really 3 or 6
months you get to decide just make sure
it will give you security and if you're
married make sure you agree on that
number you can fight about Ted lasso
series finale you can fight about pizza
toppings but for this one be of one
Accord now you don't need to have a year
of your salary in an emergency fund
that's Overkill so just have a heart-to-
heart with your prepper husband show him
this video tell them 6- month savings is
fine and while you're at it ask him to
reflect on the number of canned beans
stashed in the coat closet there are
Pinos in the peac coat it has gone too
far Brad which brings us to where you
should be keeping your emergency fund
some ideas include under your doorm in
your glove compartment inside the cookie
jar but if those ideas feel unsafe to
you I agree don't do that there are
other options I personally prefer like a
simple savings account connected to your
checking account a money market account
that comes with a debit card or check
writing privileges and and my personal
favorite an online high yield savings
account that pays a higher interest rate
while still giving you easy access to
your money when you need it PS I did a
whole videos on the worst place to store
your savings and the best places and I
will link that below if you want to
watch it the main point to remember here
is to make sure your emergency fund is
liquid which is why your glove
compartment wouldn't be an ideal place
to keep it that's a sticky mess waiting
to happen # grow Now by liquid here's
what I actually mean it means you can
get to it easily and quickly even if
your money can earn more interest if it
were invested earning interest is not
the point of an emergency fund this
emergency fund is Insurance not an
investment the point is to be able to
pay that doctor or mechanic quickly with
zero Hassle and zero headaches on the
flip side you don't want the money so
easy to get to that you're dipping into
it for every little reason so that's why
I love a high yield savings account it's
not attached to checking and you can
typically access your money faster than
Amazon Prime can mail you a mullet wig
oh never mind they'll have it to me by
4:00 a.m. I take it back dang they're
good with that overnight
delivery next question how do you know
when it's really time to tap into your
emergency fund well start by looking at
your budget ask yourself can you simply
adjust the budget this month to cover
the expense you know wait until next
month to take the family shoe shopping
or postpone the trip to Branson or just
cancel it all together no shade to
Branson but it's basically Great Value
Vegas fried and butter I said what I
said he's not wrong you see skipping
some extras for a few weeks to avoid
dipping into savings is totally worth it
because remember once you spend from the
emergency fund you have to rebuild the
emergency fund really quickly and if
you've done the math and moving things
around in this month's budget isn't
going to cut it ask yourself these three
questions is it unexpected is it
necessary and is it urgent if you can
answer yes to all three of those you've
got a real emergency on your hands and a
real need to use the emergency fund and
use common sense here even if it feels
like it your friend's last minute
Bachelor trip to Pensacola Beach is not
enough emergency and I know you don't
want to miss the dolphin cruise but
there'll be another one you don't know
that you don't know that and when it
comes to actually building your fully
funded emergency fund it's easy to get
discouraged because there's no immediate
reward I mean truthfully saving isn't as
much fun as the other things you can do
with money like spend it or give it but
if you put your mind to it most people
can knock out this step in 6 months or
less plus it's a huge financial and
emotional step because funny enough when
you have an emergency fund you sort of
quit having Financial emergencies they
simply turn into inconveniences you see
when you're broke you never seem to have
good luck and when you're not broke you
seem to have more good luck but really
it's not luck you've just set yourself
up to be in a better position to afford
higher quality items do the right
maintenance and have margin the real key
to this whole emergency fund thing is
you have to make it a priority I mean if
your fantasy team Sherlock Mahomes
matters more to you than Financial
Security you're never going to have it
so get your mind right and get this in
place ASAP then when you have that extra
padding you'll have a true taste a
financial piece kind of a warm Bold
Flavor with hints of freedom and vibrant
notes of cash flow at vacations that's
nice that's a
10 plus there will be no reason to keep
around debt or credit cards anymore
because you're funding yourself that's
right I said it Go fund yourself mom if
you're watching I didn't actually cuss
okay don't call me upset now if you
don't have an emergency fund yet or
you're realizing right now that yours
isn't big enough it's time to start
saving and making a budget is the first
step to get there now I personally use
the every dooll budgeting app because it
makes it super easy to see where your
money is going and make a plan plus on
average firsttime every dollar budgeters
immediately find an extra 332 bucks in
their budget and cut their monthly
expenses by 9% with that you'll be
building your emergency fund in no time
so if you want to check out every dollar
I will link it below oh and I'd love to
know in the comments what your last
emergency was and how much it cost you
and more importantly did you have the
savings to cover it as always share this
video with a friend who needs to
reexamine their definition of emergency
Farooq the Joe Bros tour is not an
emergency Don't make me say it a third
time plus Joe's kind of phoning it in on
stage man he's going through a lot let's
wait till the next tour thanks for
watching we'll see you next time
